The fist step to getting linux is to install the proper os onto a flash drive that you can plug into your chromebook. I would recommend using belena etcher(https://etcher.balena.io/) for the os writing. You can get the proper os from here (https://github.com/hexdump0815/linux-mainline-on-arm-chromebooks). Once you have that done you will need to enable developer mode on your chromebook. You will need to press esc + refresh + power at the same time to enter recovery mode(must be done while the computer is in chrome os) then you will press control + d it will say that you will delete all data on your chromebook(it is all backed up to google so you wont loose anything) press the "Confirm" button. Next step is to enable booting from a usb. You will need to press the right arrow key(forward) the control key and the alt key at the same time. This will log you into the vt2 root shell once you are there you will need to type chroot as the username (there is no password) from here type in enable_dev_usb_boot in the window, you may need to use sudo before the command if it doesn't work. The next step is to plug in the usb drive that you created in belena etcher on step one. You should shutdown your chromebook fully with the usb drive pluged in and when it turns on you should see the recovery screen. Next press control + U on the recovery screen (never press space as it will ruin the process and you will need to start over. Now that you are booted into linux you will see a gray login screen with a box to the left that asks for a username, the username is "linux" and the password is "changeme" for some reason you cannot change the username from linux on the login. after that you will open the terminal, the next steps can be a bit complex but I will walk you through it as best as I can. On the terminal type in "lsblk" press enter. next look for the drive that says sda, this is your flash drive, next look for the mmcblk0 or mmcblk1 text this is the emmc storage(if you have a different storage than emmc then this will look different), this will help determine the next terminal command. next type "sudo wipefs -a /dev/****put in eather mmcblk0 or mmcblk1 depending on what lsblk said*****" THIS WILL WIPE YOUR CHROME OS, THIS IS NOT REVERSABLE
